We need to use the American Community Survey (ACS) census data and its 
public use microdata samples (PUMS) for deriving synthetic households 
for our target synthetic population construction process. ACS census and
PUMS data are both downloadable directly from the ACS website or through
its FTP server. We can use any of the two means to get the data.

Now to the IPF algorithm, we have do construct the marginal distribution
for different demographic, social, and economic characteristis readily 
from the census data. Then we select the same/related attributes in the
PUMS data to generate the seed distributions (a.k.a) a multidimensional
table to kick start the IPF process. One important thing to remember is
that, we need to format the downloaded data from ACS before we can use 
it for IPF. For exmaple, each census data has metadata associated with it 
that needs to be removed. For many demographics a margin of error is 
given in the census data. That need to be used to determine the accuracy
threshold we seek for IPF. Finally, sometimes the demographic attribute
of the census data may not directly match demographic attributes in the
PUMS data. So we need to transform either the PUMS or the census data 
before we use them.

The IPF library we will use is the Python IPFN library. It takes input
in both numpy multidimensional array and pandas dataframe format. So our
translated input data must be in those two format. IPFN website says that
numpy version of the library is faster. Another thing to note that the 
numpy version of IPF allows to specify the termination accuracy threshold
for the algorithm but pandas version does not allow that. So when working
on larger data that is unlikely to converge to the merginal very closely,
numpy is the better option. So that should be the final target, but we 
should support both data format for ease of understanding and the sake of 
completeness.

Once IPF completes, we have the estimated joint distributions for American
households for the chosen year of census data for our demographic 
characteristics of interet. To construct the synthetic householeds from
these joint distribution, we need to use some joint-distribution sampling
process. The idea is that for a single sample, you find the demographic 
attributes along different dimensions. Then you choose a household from
the PUMS data that satisfy all those attributes. When you pick a PUMS
household, you also retain other attrbutes of the household that you did 
not use for IPF but that may come handy in later steps of the population
synthesis process.

So to summarize the steps are as follows

	1. investigate ACS census and PUMS data to determine 
	   the model demographics for population estimation.
	2. Download nation-wide or region-specific ACS survey 
	   and PUMS data for the chosen demographics.
	3. Format the downloaded data to create pandas and/or
	   numpy input for ipfn
	4. Decide the threshold accuracy level that is adequate
	   and reasonable for IPF termination	
	5. Run IPFN up-to desired level of accuracy.
	6. Sample from PUMS data following the joint probability




       
